# Incident Response Playbook 
## Purpose and Scope
### Purpose
This incident response plan exists to ensure Nova Scotia Power is prepared to manage cyber incidents effectively and efficiently. Cybersecurity incidents are increasingly frequent and sophisticated, posing a serious risk to organizations worldwide. Nova Scotia Power is not immune to such threats and must be equipped to detect, prevent, and respond to incidents. By having a structured plan, a trained team, and conducting regular exercises, we will be better prepared to respond to inevitable incidents, minimizing potential damage and mitigating further risks to our organization. Resources must be deployed in an organized manner, utilizing exercised skills and clear communication strategies (Government of Canada, Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada, Office of the Deputy Minister, Digital Transformation Service Sector & Digital Transformation Service Sector, 2021d).<br>
This document outlines the comprehensive plan for responding to cybersecurity incidents at Nova Scotia Power. It identifies the incident response structure, roles, responsibilities, common types of incidents, and the steps for preparing, identifying, containing, eradicating, recovering, and conducting lessons learned, all aimed at minimizing the impact of cybersecurity incidents.
The goal of this incident response plan is to ensure Nova Scotia Power is organized to respond to cybersecurity incidents both effectively and efficiently.
### Scope
This incident response plan applies to Nova Scotia Power’s networks, systems, data, and all stakeholders (including employees, contractors, and third-party vendors) who have access to them. Members of the Cybersecurity Incident Response Team (CSIRT) are expected to lead or participate in incident response activities. CSIRT members must familiarize themselves with this plan and be prepared to collaborate with the goal of minimizing the adverse effects on the organization.
This document establishes the incident handling and response capabilities of Nova Scotia Power and outlines the appropriate responses for common cybersecurity incidents. It does not provide a detailed list of every activity that should be performed but rather serves as a framework for combating cybersecurity incidents.
## Authority
Responsibility for the security of company and customer information resides with the President and CEO of Nova Scotia Power, Peter Gregg. In the event of a high or critical cybersecurity incident, this responsibility is delegated to the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). However due to organization structure Shoaib Qabil Badshah the Grid Operations & Security
Manager will act as the Chief Information Security Officer. During such incidents, Shoaib Qabil Badshah, in collaboration with the Cybersecurity Incident Response Team (CSIRT), will oversee the execution of the incident response plan and ensure that all necessary actions are taken to safeguard the organization’s assets and information.

## Definitions
Review the definitions below and retain or revise as required. If necessary, expand the list to best reflect your organization's unique cyber security incident response plan.<br>
**Acceptable interruption window in business continuity planning** - is the amount of time in which basic functionality must be restored for critical systems. It is a major factor when planning a disaster recovery solution.<br>
**Confidentiality** - is a classification of data that typically refers to personally identifiable information. It may include such things as social insurance numbers, drivers licence numbers, etc.<br>
**Cyber security event** - is an observable occurrence in a system or network. Events include a user connecting to a file share, a server receiving a request for a web page, or a user sending email.<br>
**Cyber security incident**- is any incident that occurs by accident or deliberately that impacts communications or information processing systems. An incident may be any event or set of circumstances that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information, data or services within Nova Scotia Power. This includes unauthorized access to, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction of data or services used or provided by NS Power.<br>
**Denial of service (attack)**- also known as a dos attack, seeks to make a remote service unavailable to its intended users by flooding its host with superfluous requests, thereby overloading the system.<br>
**Exploit** -  in cyber security terms is a piece of software, a chunk of data, or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer software, hardware, or something electronic.<br>

**Indicators**- also known as "indicators of compromise" or iocs, are forensic clues or symptoms left behind by cybersecurity attacks or breaches in the company's network or systems. These clues are sometimes found in log entries, files, or databases.<br>
**Integrity** - refers to the maintenance or assurance of data accuracy, consistency, and its accessibility to authorized users for its entire life-cycle.<br>
**Maximum tolerable downtime** - in business continuity planning, this specifies the maximum period of time that a given business process can be inoperative before the organization's survival is at risk.<br>
**Response playbook** - introduces prescriptive cyber security measures and best practices that can be implemented to improve the organization's security profile. This playbook provides a set of standards to reference the organization, improves current systems and implement new ones.<br>
**Service availability**- describes the state of a system being available and responsive to prospective users. The term is sometimes used to reference a measure of reliability of a system or network resource based on how often it is available as a % of time. For example, 99.97% service availability means that a system is available 99.97% of the time.<br>
**SLA**- stands for service level agreement and is used to describe a guaranteed measure of service availability. If service availability drops below the prescribed sla, there are usually financial repercussions, like a money-back guarantee.<br>
**Stakeholder relationship map** - is a diagram that describes the relationship between individuals in an organization. With respect to cyber security, these diagrams are used to perform it risk assessments to better inform preventative and reactive measures.<br>
**Vulnerability**- is a piece of code or bug within a system that causes unintended or unanticipated behavior. A vulnerability implies that this behaviour can be taken advantage of for malicious reasons.<br>
**War room** -  is a dedicated meeting room where major incidents are handled together. It must have a door for privacy, must be available at all times, and must have good communications infrastructure (network, phone, etc.)<br>
**Zero-day** - is a type of vulnerability that is known to the software vendor but doesn't have a patch in place to fix the flaw. It has at least the potential to be exploited, if it has not already been exploited by cybercriminals.<br>
